welcome to the man of recaps this is the
legend of korra full series recap in the
last airbender aang and team avatar
defeated the fire lord and saved the
world on the burn section of the earth
kingdom they built republic city where
people of all nations could live
together in peace
and lived a long happy life but
eventually the avatar cycle of
reincarnation continued
into cora she's a real physical busting
fists blazing kind of avatar she's spent
her life so far at her home in the
southern water tribe training with the
members of the white lotus including
katara who must be
real old now she's already mastered
three of the four elements the only one
left is air but who's gonna teach her
airbending aang was the last
airbender luckily aang had an airbending
kid it's tenzin who's already got three
young airbending kids of his own he
takes car with him back to republic city
a shiny beacon of modern times yeah
technology's progressed very quickly
since the last airbender cora
immediately starts fighting some local
gangs but the city doesn't need her help
they've got a highly trained police
force of metal benders they use long
metal cables which at first i thought
was weird until i realized that's the
easiest way to carry a lot of metal on
you yeah our girl toff from the last
airbender after she invented metal
bending founded the republic city police
force current chief is toff's daughter
linde fong and like her mother she's
kind of grumpy on air temple island
cora's beginning her airbending training
but she's not really the meditating type
the airbending philosophy of don't
attack evade is not really her style
what is her style is the wildly popular
pro-bending league yeah they've turned
bending into an organized sport she
befriends earthbender bolin who's the
real nice funny guy type he's on the
fire ferrets named after his animal
companion babu his brother's a
firebender named mako who much like zuko
is a real serious angsty boy type
conveniently they just lost their
waterbender so korra joins the team and
organized sports turns out to be the
perfect way for her to understand the
concepts of airbending but there's a new
danger growing in republic city a group
called the equalists non-vendors who are
sick of being oppressed by the bending
elite they're led by their super cool
masked leader amman
and somehow he has the ability just like
aang did to firelord ozai
to take people's bending away
permanently i mean while the fire
ferrets have won their way into the
championship tournament unfortunately
they don't have enough money to pay the
entrance fee but that changes when mako
gets hit by a scooter driven by an
absolute knockout asami she's a huge
bro-bending fan and conveniently super
rich her father hiroshi sato is one of
the biggest industrialists in the city
and agrees to sponsor the fire ferrets
the team is doing great untilkur
confesses her crush on mako but mako
just started dating asami
awkward but bolin has a crush on korra
and she agrees to go out with him which
makes mako jealous and he confesses he
likes cora and they kiss right when
bolin sees
it's a mess and it ruins their team
chemistry eventually they agree this
love square thing is dumb let's all just
be friends now cora doesn't like asami
at first she's jealous about mako and
thinks she's just a rich girl
but actually asami's a huge badass who
likes extreme sports and soon she and
korra are bffs but turns out to somi's
father is working for the equalists yes
a bender killed his wife and it turned
him into a villain he's built these epic
robots designed to take down benders and
they're made out of platinum so metal
benders can't bend them he's like asami
join me on the dark side but she's like
no thanks pops i'm gonna be a good guy
so she and the gang make it their
mission to take down the equalists and
they form the new team avatar they're
not riding around on a fluffy animal
though they got a sweet sports car and a
super cool steampunk vibe
councilman tarlock is also committed to
fighting him on but he's clearly just
using this to gain power for himself
pretty soon core finds out he's a
villain but not just any villain he's a
bloodbender
yes the terrifying technique we learned
about in the last airbender where you
bend the water in a person's body to
control them he locks core in his
basement where she finally succeeds at
meditating and meets a grown-up ang
oh he got hot he was working with police
chief adult toff and councilman adult
saka to take down a notorious gangster
who turns out is a prodigy bloodbender
can do it not during the full moon and
without even moving king eventually goes
avatar state and takes his bending away
turns out councilman tarlock is his son
back for revenge but you know who hates
all benders amman
and somehow blood bending doesn't affect
him oh he takes this guy's bending away
one villain down but ahman's the bigger
threat with the sami's father's help
he's got an army and has taken over the
city
but republic city's got an army of their
own led by general iro
zuko's son tell her we will be arriving
in three days time
and then i look forward to winning back
republic city together
unfortunately asami's father has just
invented airplanes and
wipes out their whole fleet so core and
mako use the stealth approach where they
find a locked up tarlock who explains
that amman
is his brother yeah their father escaped
and started a new life where he had two
sons and tried to teach them the art of
blood bending to come back and get
revenge
amon especially got very good at it and
found a way through blood bending to
take people's bending away and now he's
got cora oh no
it's happening yes he's taken away the
avatar's bending but wait what's this
an air bending punch yeah she had never
airbended before so i guess he couldn't
take it away and with that boom blasts
him out the window amman's exposed his
waterbender and loses all his followers
so he's got a piece out of there he
grabs his brother with a speedboat and
it's like yes brother we'll come back
together and conquer the city later the
tarlock realizes now he and his brother
are the bad guys and so what's this
oh a brother murder suicide heavy of
course bending though seems to be
permanently gone
until she meets adultang he's like
what's up girl
me and all your past lives are here to
help unlocks your bending and yeah
avatar's back in action she and mako
start making out and that's the end of
book one
in book two spirits korra goes home to
the southern water tribe for the annual
spirits festival oonalock the chief of
the northern water tribe comes too that
is korra's father's brother and they
don't like each other unlock brings his
twin kids with them eska
and desna and bolin's got a huge crush
on whichever one's the girl she is in
fact voiced by aubrey plaza and is one
of the best characters in the show
you amuse me i will make you mine
you mean like a boyfriend or like a
slave
yes win me prizes belin may have been
off more than he can chew here he spends
the season trying to dump her but she
does not let him meanwhile lunalock is a
real party pooper he's like this fun
festival disgraces the spirits
you may be right though because that
night the dark spirits attacks and only
unlock knows the way to like disperse it
he's like avatar i need your help to
restore balance we've got to go down to
the southern spirit portal where you can
use your avatar powers to boom reopen it
so the day is saved but the next day
unlock's whole army arrives and occupies
the southern water tribe he's like trust
me i'm a good guy but it's soon apparent
he's not meanwhile asami is running her
father's company and has a meeting with
another wealthy industrialist and the
best character on the show
it's varric he is a wacky insane genius
basically tony stark on steroids
okay here come the ideas fast and
furious
radio for pets uh
hand shoes he's never far from his
assistant julie and has this catchphrase
julie do the thing andy mavitar escape
on his yacht back to republic city where
they try to convince the president to
help but he's like hey i can't intervene
in internal water tribe affairs mako
actually takes the president's side he's
become a public city cop and chooses his
duty over korra so oh she dumps his ass
she's going back down to fight unlock
herself but oh a giant dark spirit comes
and
eats her varric takes berlin under his
wing he's making propaganda films about
the water tribe civil war and casts
bolin as the lead
he's knocked up the hero of the south
about one day after cora leaves mako and
asami get back together maku's
investigating a bombing and finds out
that the pyrotechnics in the movie
is the same remote detonator that varric
invented yes varric is the bad guy but
he can't prove it veric hasn't framed
and arrested cora wakes up on an island
with amnesia and has a spirit vision
quest to learn about the first avatar
juan in ancient times humanity lived on
giant lion turtles who would give them
the power of bending temporarily to
defend themselves against the spirits
one eventually befriended the spirits
and when he saw these giant kite ones
fighting decided to break it up but ooh
that was the evil batu and now he's let
it escape
the good spirits rava's like hey i need
your help see normally humans can only
have one type of bending but if i give
you some of my power
you can have multiple at a time so one
traveled around to the lion turtles
got all the bending and mastered all the
elements so on the day of harmonic
convergence juan and rava came to face
vatu and with their powers combined
avatar state
managed to seal him away for good and
they closed the portals to the spirit
world so batu could never escape so thus
began the legacy of the avatar charged
with keeping balance in the world and
it's rava's spirit that passes on and
reincarnates him when he dies tenzin
meanwhile has been on vacation with his
family
including his siblings yeah ain't tara
had two other kids he's the only
airbender though his sister kai is a
waterbender and his brother boomi is not
a bender but he is insane and hilarious
eventually korra comes back with the bad
news that unlocks going to release the
evil spirits and take over the world or
whatever tenzin tries to help korra
meditate into the spirit world but it's
actually his oldest daughter genora who
has the natural connection to the
spirits and who does korra meet in the
spirit world but
uncle iro apparently near the end of his
life he decided to abandon his body and
come to the spirit world for permanent
retirement and in true uncle iro fashion
he gives cora some good tea and good
advice
you will find that if you look for the
light you can often find it
but if you look for the dark that is all
you will
ever see the mission's a huge failure
though because genora gets captured and
unlocked forces korra to open the other
spirit portal back in republic city
bolin's a full-on movie star now and the
fictional unlock is carrying out his
master plan while the real luna locks
kidnapping the president while nuktuk
saves the day on screen but lin saves
the day in real life but turns out they
weren't sent by unlock they were sent by
varric oh the jigsaw varek points out
though that he's not really a bad guy
his whole plot to capture the president
and blame it on unlock was just to get
republic city to join the war
if anything he's the good guy cora comes
back excited to see her boyfriend mako
yeah she's got just enough amnesia she
doesn't remember that they broke up and
the love triangle is back on
anyway team avatars go into the north
pole to stop unlock and long story short
they get to the spirit world just too
late it's harmonic convergence
and vatu is released from his prison
cora goes avatar state and fights this
giant kite but this time batu's got his
own human champion
and unlock becomes the dark avatar they
have an avatar
fight unlock doesn't have all the
elements by the way just water but he
does have a huge power up and is able to
pull rava out of gora he starts bashing
rava directly which erases korra's past
lives until
bam rava destroyed and the avatar cycle
ended then he turns into a giant spirit
monster and attacks republic city now
republic city is not defenseless it's
got a strong modern army led by general
iro but they weren't prepared for a
giant spirit monster and unlock wipes
out his whole fleet
then cora meditates in a tree and
becomes a giant spirit of herself and
they have a huge kaiju
fight in the harbor we're in full anime
mode now i have no idea what's happening
but in the end core is able to save a
fragment of the spirit of rava and
destroy unlock and uh avatars back in
business
but the memory of all those past lives
were permanently erased so
that's kind of a bummer cora's going to
reseal the spirit portals but she's like
wait a second maybe i should leave them
open and humans and spirits can live
together in harmony tens in your wives
what do you think and he's like cora i'm
going to be honest with you i have no
idea what's going on i'm just sticking
around because i heard season three is
pretty cool so now it's book three
change where spirits have reinhabited a
world which is nice except that
sometimes they do it in the middle of
the city but there's an unexpected side
effect
uncle boomy is now an airbender what
and it's not just him a bunch of random
people have suddenly developed
airbending
opening the spirit portals is bringing
balance back to the world so the gang's
gonna fly around the world finding
airbenders on a sami's awesome new blimp
by the way korra finally remembered that
she and mako broke up and they agree
it's best if we're just friends mako's
very awkward for a bit around both korra
and asami but this just brings the girls
closer together now tenzin is very
excited to rebuild the air nomad nation
but turns out most people are not cut
out to be monks they find one promising
recruit though a young orphan named kai
who starts out as a bit of a thief and a
con artist but
eventually becomes part of the family
but now in a secret prison on top of a
mountain
is zaheer a villain with a zen-like
philosophy and a super cool voice
lahima once wrote instinct is a lie
told by a fearful body hoping to be
wrong
he was so dangerous he was locked up
here without even being a bender
and now he has air bending so he busts
out of there no problem he travels to a
wooden prison in the middle of the ocean
and tosses some rocks to his earth
bending buddy who's mastered a special
technique of lava bending
in a metal prison in the middle of a
volcano is a woman with no arms but when
they give her some water oh she's water
bending arms what a crazy technique
these three breakouts attract the
attention of our boy fire lord zuko he
teams up with cora's dad to stop zaheer
but
here's too much of a badass he rescues
their firebender a real tall girl with
oh what's this the combustion man
tattoos
yeah sparky sparky boom now unaware of
this trouble brewing team avatar has
made it to the grand metropolis of
bossing say
unfortunately the modern era has only
increased the divide between the rich
and poor as the new earth queen is a
terrible person who cares more about her
shrubberies than caring for her citizens
she tells cora there are no airbenders
embossing sei which seems unlikely and
indeed the daily are kidnapping them and
conscripting them into an airbender army
team avatar won't stand for that and
breaks them all out which unfortunately
makes them enemies of the earth kingdom
but all these new airbenders who can't
go home
are happy to join the new air nation
team avatar's last stop is the super
cool new metal city of zafu
the earth vendors here have turned metal
bending into a true art form and they're
led by
zhu yin bei fong yes that is toff's
other daughter she and her sister lin do
not get along though it's a whole thing
going back to their childhood and
eventually they fight it out and then
make up suyun teaches cora metal bending
which she picks up pretty quickly but
bolin can't pick it up at all but he
does pick up her daughter opal a real
nice girl they hit it off and turns out
she's the new airbender they're here to
recruit but sahir's gang shows up with a
dastardly plot to kidnap the avatar and
it turns into an epic fight
long story short core attracts him to
the spirit world where he explains he's
a member of the red lotus according to
him the white lotus has been corrupted
they're now just pawns of the
establishment that keep people oppressed
the red lotus is all about true freedom
which in his mind is anarchy cora is
like you know governments are bad
sometimes in fact the villains have been
corrupt politicians in every single
season so far but also you go around
killing people so clearly you're the bad
guy there's some more shenanigans
i'm not gonna get into but basically
zaheer gets to the earth queen and uses
his new airbending powers to oh create a
vacuum and suffocate her
and with the earthqueen dead he incites
an anarchist revolution embossing say
then he kidnaps the new airbenders but
daddy tens and ain't messing around
oh he shows him what a real airbending
master looks like so here captures cora
but he's cornered on the mountaintop but
he's been studying teachings of this
ancient air master
let go your earthly tether enter the
void
empty and become wind so here's like all
right let's do this falls off the
mountain but oh
he can fly now all right the rest of the
gang is having some lava trouble so
bolin steps up and
oh he figured out lava bending congrats
buddy so
here wants to kill the avatar by
poisoning her with some metal so she'll
go into the avatar state and kill her
then is ending the cycle of
reincarnation only flaw in the plan is
that when she goes into the avatar state
she's
real strong and busts out of there so
coranza here are flying around having a
big old fight but oh the poison's still
in her system it's weak and herze here's
got the upper
hand and he's starting to suffocate her
but wait what's this it's all the new
air benders forming a big old tornado to
give corey the upper hand and take
zaheer down they get the poison out of
korra and zahir is defeated so the day
is saved except the poison took a huge
toll on cora's body she's grievously
injured will she ever be the same so now
it's time for book four balance there's
a three year time gap and the earth
kingdom is still in anarchy
luckily the new airbenders are here to
save the day with their updated modern
wingsuit uniforms
cool but they're not the only ones
keeping peace in the earth kingdom on an
awesome new metal magnet train the xaofu
security forces are here
led by kuvira she's bringing order to
the chaos and reuniting the fragmented
earth kingdom in fact bolin is here
working for her as well as varrik
but the stability she offers comes with
a steep price these mostly autonomous
provinces must hand over full central
control directly to
kuvira the great uniter now the heir to
the earth kingdom is prince wu a spoiled
brat living it up in republic city with
mako as his security chief but khavir is
like hey does anyone really want this
guy to be their king
i think the time of monarchy's over i
declare a new earth empire what does the
avatar have to say about this well
cora's missing in action she spent a
long time recovering down at the south
pole and finally decided to symbolically
cut her hair and travel the world to
find herself she's in a bad way though
being haunted by herself and finally
finds our girl toff yeah just the top we
remember from last airbender except
super old now hermit living and swamp
she can sense there's a little bit of
the metal poison left in her system and
long story short helps cora get it out
of her so kuvira's army is headed back
to zaofu to take it by force if
necessary but the avatar is here to stop
her she fights kuvera one on one but
cora is still not really on top of her
game and kubira absolutely trashes her
around this time bolin realizes he's
working for the bad guy and varric comes
to the same conclusion in fact very's
been experimenting with spirit vines as
a source of energy but turns out they're
way unstable and explode kuvera wants
varric to weaponize it for her but he
refuses so he's under arrest but what's
this his loyal assistant julie
abandons him she's like yeah he treats
me like garbage makes me scrub his feet
and stuff
guards do the thing now
not the thing luckily varric and bolin
managed to escape and get back to
republic city to warn them of a new
super weapon earlier bolin and opal had
a huge fight and broke up because he
didn't realize he was working for the
bad guy so now he's doing whatever it
takes to win her back including go on on
a secret mission to rescue her family
along with her grandmatoff the family
gets rescued but the spirit vine super
cannon is complete
julie helped build it but it keeps
malfunctioning and pretty soon kavira
realizes that julie was lying to her
she's always been loyal to varric and a
good guy then the bayfongs bust in have
a big old metal bending
fight tough unleashes a huge earthquake
but they're outnumbered and have to
escape bolin's redeemed himself he and
opal get back together and varric and
julia reunited but she's like hey mister
some of the stuff i said about you not
appreciating me was real so you better
shape up now the world can't really stop
kugara so the plan is to just let her
have the earth kingdom but
kubira looked at a map and decided that
republic city should be part of the
earth empire
it's time to invade now for public
cities not defenseless they've got a
strong modern army still led by general
airo the only problem would be the super
spirit cannon but that's stuck on the
train tracks
except kavira has ditched the train and
mounted the cannon on
a ridiculous giant robot and once again
it immediately wipes out general ira's
fleet it's up to team avatar to stop
this thing but it is pretty much
invulnerable luckily we've got two super
geniuses on our team
three if you count to sami's dad who's
released from prison they build a
hummingbird robot with lasers that can
cut through platinum and asami's dad has
to sacrifice himself to save the day
with the way inside team avatar leaps
into action korra goes for the rematch
with kubira and does a lot better this
time then mako hits the spirit vine
engine with
lightning and blam blows this robot
apart kubira escapes to the spirit
forest where guess what landed
the cannon boom point-blank blast avatar
state block and an explosion it
unleashes so much spirit energy that a
new spirit portal opens up right here in
the middle of the city core and caviar
land in the spirit world where it's like
so you recognize you've become the bad
guy in this situation right and she's
like yeah i kind of realized so kuvira
surrenders and the day is saved when
things were looking bleak varric
proposed to julie admitting that she's
more than his assistant she's his
partner so the series ends with a big
wedding you may now
do the thing cora and mako do not
rekindle their romance though it's been
too much they're just friends
it's actually a sami that core is
talking to at the end it's like you know
what screw the boys let's go on a girl's
vacation to the spirit world
and what's this they're holding hands
well this isn't coming out of nowhere
though the attraction has always been
there between them and it's always a
sami that core turns to at our lowest
points it's been apparent their
friendship's been grown into something
more for a while now so more power to
him and that's where legend of korra
comes to an end
hit that subscribe button for more of
the best recaps of tv and movies and
click the join button to support the
channel and be a recap champion